# 57-161: Eurhythmics I

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| Exams    | 5          |
| Homeworks| 1          |

This class allows students to feel music through movement, from the Dalcroze method.

## Homeworks

There are homeworks that are sometimes assigned, which includes practicing conducting and stepping, rewriting goofy rhythms, labeling phrases, etc.

## Exams

There are different exams: movement, canon, sight-reading and improvisation (improv), and dictation. Movement quizzes involve stepping and conducting based on a melody that is either shown or played. Canon quizzes involve stepping the melody a bar after Neely plays the melody. Sight-reading quizzes test your ability to sight read the rhythms from the binary and ternary lists. You must start and end with your conductor. For improv, you must sing, sway, and conduct, and you must get the groove, which is the type of time signature, and you must cadence properly. Finally, dictation quizzes, which is the hardest part of Eurhythmics, since you must write down the rhythms of each example that is played a limited number of times. Later in the course, they can be anacrusic, and can be ternary. The best way to prepare for dictations is to find study buddies (for each day) to give single bars, in which your ultimate goal is to recognize the rhythms from the lists as quick as possible or to memorize the samples. Do this until you get bored of it, and then do harder ones. If you can't get it within two hearings, then make it easier. The speed can be of your preference, and you don't always have to include pitch.

There is a midterm composition assignment that you must do, just follow the instructions of that assignment and you must perform it during the day that the recitals are held.

Later quizzes have Rewrite the Goofy Rhythm, which boosts your quiz/exam grade.

## Lectures

Attendance is mandatory. Lectures include stepping and conducting, clapping, learning new rhythms and time signatures, practicing dictations, sight-reading, and improv.

## Fulfillments
 
This course counts as a Humanties and Arts elective for SCS, MCS, and CIT. It is also a required course for all music majors and minors.

## Applicability

Course content is aligned with Dalcroze Pedagogy, where you can go on the path to get a Dalcroze License, or a Diplome Supérieur, which is mastery of 
Eurhythmics, so you can teach it, since Neely strongly encourages students to go this way, since he has been teaching for a while, and may retire someday.

## Prior Experience

No prior experience is required. However, experience with dictation will be useful.

## Resources

- OH, which is every Sunday and Tuesday. Review sessions are also held sometimes, where you can practice dictation.
