# 57-185: Advanced Solfege I

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| Exams    | 1          |
| Homeworks| 1          |

This class allows students to sightsing and analyze music aurally using the 'fixed-do' system.

## Homeworks

There are homeworks that are sometimes assigned, in which we compose and/or sing melodies, or practice dictations from Advanced Tonal Dictation which the professor
allows you to take a picture of, and she plays the dictations, in which you record them to do later.

## Exams

Exams generally follow the same format: intervals: ascending, descending, and simultaneous, identification of scales, and chords, melodic dictations,
and two-part dictations. There are also sight-singing exams that are individually scheduled, where you just spend 7 minutes singing a couple of melodies.

## Lectures

Attendance is always taken. Lectures include singing melodies, practicing dictations, and learning new chords and scales.

## Fulfillments
 
This course counts as a Humanties and Arts elective for SCS, MCS, and CIT. It is also a required course for all music majors and minors.

## Applicability

Course content is not particularly aligned to any technical field, but students with an interest in music may find it interesting.  

## Prior Experience

Students take and pass a Solfege placement test prior to taking it. They may also enroll just by saying that they have perfect pitch. 
Students who don't pass will be put in 57-180 Basic Solfege I or 57-181 Solfege I

## Resources

- Music for Sight Singing, Thomas, Benjamin, Michael Horvit, and Robert Nelson, 6th edition, which is downloadable if you ask for it or search for it.
