# 15-112: Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 3          |
| Exams    | 4.5          |

This is a pre-requisite for 15-122 (unless you have AP credit :D).

I've heard 2 (opposite) sides for this class's reputation:
"Easy woohoo" or "all nighter before each hw is due woohoo"

For some people, the difficulty depends on how much previous experience 
with coding that you have. For example, some students got a 5 on AP Computer Science A, 
so many of the fundamental problem-solving stuff is the same and it's relatively
easy to pick up a new language. That said, there's still some "new" content to 
learn near the end that wasn't in the AP curriculum, so you won't be bored. And 
you'll still get better at coding in the meantime (speed, code-tracing...etc).

Personally, I think that this course wasn't that bad, since you just need to 
utilize your resources well to ensure that you don't become too focused on one
homework problem that can affect your grade for that category. The final is
optional, in which you would take it if you still don't get the grade you wanted.
To do well on the midterms, you just gotta study the content ahead of time, attend
review sessions, and focus on your weaknesses. Backtracking was the hardest for me,
but the algorithm follows a general structure, which guarantees a lot of partial credit
on the exams.

However, I've heard friends that came in with no coding experience say that it
was a lot more work. So if this is your introduction to coding you may think the
content goes a bit fast. But the teachers said they built the course so that you
experience the "peak"-ish difficulty at about week 4, so you have enough time to
figure out if you want to switch to 15-110 (they have an agreement with 15-110 so
you can transfer directly there if you'd like) which is hypothetically easier 
(and also counts as a pre-req for 15-122).

It's pretty rhythmic with a hw and quiz (almost) every week, and then then last 
few weeks is the term project.

(Disclaimer: I took this during zoom school Spring 2021, so some things are diff.
Specifically, the final was optional: it defaulted to your weighted midterm avg if
you don't take it, which is what I did so idk how the final usually is. I don't
think the final is optional for in-person school though. Also, according to the 
syllabus (S22) there's now things called "Fix it Fridays" which were not a thing
when I took it so idk what to say about that.)


## What to expect

- **HW:** Released at the beginning of the week, due Sat @8pm, submitted through
CS academy, which allows you to check your code after the assertions are passed, so
you can fix it and resubmit it if there are any other cases that were not fulfulled.
There are unlimited submissions on them, however, start them as early as you can.
Also, do the bonuses if you have time. The ones in the beginning are
easier and can definitely pad your grade as things get harder.
- **Quizzes:** Beginning of lecture almost every Tues week. Lots of code-tracing,
and then 1 or 2 free response. The first one can be a bit scary (as the teachers
say every year) because of the time crunch, but you'll get better with practice.
Specifically by doing a LOT of practice quizzes: you can find previous versions
of the course (and quizzes and midterms) in the "Syllabus" section. Focusing on
your weak areas will be very useful to ensure a decent score on them. If the
format changes for any quiz, it will be posted on Ed.
- **Midterms:** Thu lectures. Like with quizzes, go find previous exams and do those.
Not meant to be as much of a time crunch as quizzes. About the same format as quizzes,
but longer. Likewise with format changes, it will be posted on Ed.
- **Term project:** About the last month ish or so. Since you pick the idea, the
standards needed to reach the MVP (grade = 80%) will vary, but they will make it 
similar between years and similar projects types. You'll meet with your TA Mentor
and submit project checkpoints each week, and also demo the final product. The
demo = explain all the cool things/details you did so they'll give you all the 
points you deserve. If you are struggling like I did by TP1, then stick to the
scaffolded option, but if you want to get a decent grade, then you have to implement
more features, and I didn't get any deductions since I had no bugs with all my existing
features.
- **Final:** Optional as of Fall 2024. Only take it if you don't get your desired 
grade when the preliminary TP grades come out, which is for 95% of the students in 112
, which is mostly accurate to the point where there are no deductions for errors
and egregious style in your deliverables. Unfortunately, there aren't any previous
final exams posted on the website, but they'll probably post a practice final on Ed.
- **Hackathon:** Totally optional, but lots of fun, prizes, and beginner-friendly.

## How to do well

- Make sure you have all required technology up to standards. Installation instructions
on website.
- Do the bonuses on HW. (They're also on quizzes/tests but there's more time pressure.)
- Do lots of practice for quizzes and tests (they also have extra coding practice
if you want that). Focus primarily on areas you struggle with. (Backtracking can be
very hard for some).
- The TA's hold optional solution sessions for the hw and review sessions for tests.
They'll go over concepts, practice problems and answer questions.
- Ask questions on Ed/OH: the teachers like to brag that the response rate is
<5 min. Ed is good for specific questions, but if you want more general help 
or are stuck with debugging, go to OH.
- CITE YOUR CODE (comment where you got it from) or else you will lose lots of
points and be sad. You should only be citing your own work (previous hw) or
lecture/recitation. You're not allowed to look stuff up online, and they have a 
plagarism detector.
- Follow the coding style guidelines exactly (ex: when they say functions must 
be <= 30 lines, that includes the function header. And no going over by even a 
single line). Also, a single line of code shouldn't exceed 80 characters, which
is indicated by the gray line in the IDE that you are using or anything equivalent.
- Start thinking about your term project ideas now. You can also meet with them 
to discuss it, so they can give you feedback about whether it's viable.
- You have 3 grace days (limit 1 per hw) where you can submit hw up to <24hr 
late for full credit. So use them wisely if you need to (they can't be used for 
term project deadlines though).
- Complete the hw in time for OH help.
- Don't rely on a curve. Sure they might curve a quiz a little bit in the beginning
when people are still adjusting to the course, but it's definitely not a regular thing.
Some medical emergencies may happen during the exams, and this could result in a curve,
but don't rely on this. The instructors may also curve exams based on historical norms.
- Term project counts for 20 % of your grade so spend quality time on it.

## What to watch out for

- The first quiz, as mentioned above, is usually a bit rough.
- HW gradually get harder over time, but the difficulty will flatten out by 
week 4 according to the teachers. IMO I think the difficulty level depends on how
much experience you've had with the topic before.
- Technology failures: back up your code somewhere, and don't submit for the
first time too close to the deadline.

## Resources

- syllabus if you want to look at the notes/schedule: [https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~112/syllabus.html](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~112/syllabus.html)
